JAKE: For the rest
of the podcast, now,
you're just going
to a high pitched--
for anything I say.
SURMA: That's what
you sounded like.
[HIGH PITCHED ME SOUNDS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
JAKE: So-- official starting
word of any HTTP203 episode.
I've been having a look through
some of the TT 39 proposals.
SURMA: Oh no.
JAKE: Oh yes.
And these are the ones which
are kind of like stage 0,
stage 1, like the
really early stuff.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE: So I would like the Surma
score for each of these things
that I'm going to show you.
SURMA: What scale
are we talking?
Minus 1, 0, 1?
JAKE: From interesting
to interesting.
That's what I want.
So the first one I'm
going to show you is this.
This is promise.try.
SURMA: Interesting.
JAKE: It's initial verdict.
SURMA: OK, here's the thing.
I'm going to try to
figure out what it is,
and you tell me if I'm right.
JAKE: All right.
SURMA: This is basically the
reverse of a weight, where
a weight turns a rejected
promise into a throw,
and this one turns a throw
into a rejected promise.
JAKE: It will do that,
but also other things
because if you do--
OK.
So let's take a
look at this, which
is that both of these things
are doing almost exactly
the same thing.
So in here, this is
an async function,
so I can write code in there.
If it froze, it's going to
return to a rejected promise.
If I return a thing, it's going
to be packaged into a promise,
and that's what p
is going to be--
it would be that return value.
The only difference
between these two
is this function here is
queued on a micro task,
and this one is not.
SURMA: Interesting.
JAKE: Yep.
Basically, this is the
implementation of try
because the promise callback
will run straight away.
SURMA: What's the difference
of just an async IIFE?
JAKE: Async IIFE is
exactly the same.
So my verdict on promise.try?
SURMA: Nope.
JAKE: I have needed
this in the past,
but I agree that async IIFE is--
although it kind of looks
a little bit ugly in code
sometimes, I agree it's taken--
SURMA: The only thing
that is nice about this
is that IIFEs are
always confusing
because you see a function,
and then it's like, oh,
I'm invoking it.
So this one would make
it like, oh, obviously, I
can see at the start,
you're invoking it.
JAKE: Yes.
And you know, I'd like
to go a bit off topic,
but that's why I don't like
APIs that have a callback first,
then some extra
stuff afterwards,
like add event listener.
SURMA: Set timeout.
JAKE: Set timeout
is a perfect one
because you are
scrolling down the page.
SURMA: It has lines of code--
four.
JAKE: Yeah, and then
just to find that.
Exactly.
Or you're looking at this
event listener going,
this doesn't really make sense.
And you get to the bottom,
and it's like, once, true.
Like, oh, OK.
Now, let's read
all of that again.
OK.
Anyway, that's off topic.
Next thing I want
to talk about--
SURMA: Stage 0.
JAKE: That is
probably stage 0 or 1.
These are the things
I didn't commit
to memory before we sat down.
Right, this.
SURMA: I know where
this is going.
I'm looking forward to that one.
JAKE: Oh, OK.
So--
SURMA: I think so, at least.
But I'm going to--
oh, Jake.
Where is this going?
JAKE: Top acting, sir.
Well, what we're
doing here is we're
trying to get the value
of data.photos.length.
But photos--
SURMA: JavaScript happens.
JAKE: Yeah, photos
might be not an object.
Like, it could be a
null or an undefined
or something like that.
So this syntax.
SURMA: Were they called the
coalescing null operator
or something?
JAKE: Yes.
Yes, or some reordering of those
sounds into the correct thing.
I think it is called
that, actually.
So yeah, what happens here is
if it gets to photos and photos
is a null, undefined, it
just stops right there.
SURMA: Interesting.
JAKE: See, it is
exciting, isn't it?
SURMA: I'm looking forward to
this so much because every now
and then, especially when you
take user data in user options
object and you have to check
if it's actually there,
and if so, you want to
inspect it-- just write it
down with a question mark, and
it would look so much better.
JAKE: Exactly.
There's another thing I
want to point out here,
and that's that I recently
got a kitten, in case anyone's
wondering why my
hands are shredded.
That's why.
Anyway, this works, as well.
SURMA: Oh yeah.
Same.
JAKE: Yeah, whatever.
Same thing.
SURMA: So just to be clear,
if the thing that you question
mark is null, then the entire
return value will be null.
JAKE: Yes, exactly.
So val would be null
in this example.
This works, as well,
which I quite like.
SURMA: Ooh!
I mean, the dot is a
little bit confusing.
I would have expected
question mark, parentheses.
JAKE: Yeah, I imagine that
might be a clash of syntax
maybe with the ternary operator
or something like that.
SURMA: Oh, that's so annoying,
but I could see that.
JAKE: So now there's a
one character look ahead.
Well, one
non-white-space character
look ahead to decide what to do.
So yeah.
But this is saying, if
whatever is present-- call it.
If not, it all becomes null.
Yeah.
SURMA: So cool.
JAKE: What's the Surma score?
SURMA: Interesting.
JAKE: Interesting.
I think so, too, actually.
I quite like that one.
Right.
Have you ever ended up with code
like this before because you
want to create a constant,
but computing that constant
requires a bit of work?
And technically--
SURMA: That's where
you write a function.
JAKE: That's where
Thank you.
Exactly.
So an answer here
is to make a self--
an IIFE-- a
self-executing function
that returns the thing.
Brilliant.
Great.
Job done.
The proposal is a do block.
SURMA: Oh.
The do.
How very functional of us.
JAKE: Exactly.
So the idea is that
you can put this
where you would put statements.
So especially useful
in things like JSX,
which is all very--
all statements.
You can't put ifs in there.
But with a do, you would
be able to put an if in,
and the final
statement in the do
is the value that's
returned, effectively.
SURMA: So what can you--
you can put any form of
JavaScript code in a do,
or just a subset?
Because I would have expected
explicit returns in the
do block.
JAKE: No, it's just
the last statement.
I actually made a mistake
when I first wrote this code.
I missed the else off
because I thought, oh--
because normally
when I write code
like this, if I'm
returning values,
I don't do the else because
all the codes ended.
And I just had
logged out, and I was
like, oh, I'm now breaking it.
SURMA: Oh, so basically, you
write just code, and then
the last--
the return value of the
last statement-- and this
is all one statement,
for the record, right?
JAKE: Yeah.
SURMA: This is one big if--
JAKE: Yeah, it's kind of
essentially the last thing
that's executed.
It's kind of the thing that
would appear in the console
if you pasted this in.
SURMA: Interesting.
JAKE: Interesting.
SURMA: Yes.
It's nicer to read
if you just say, do.
But then again, I
think I would love do
to just be a sugar of an IIFE.
And you'd be like,
just let me do returns.
What if you want to
do an early return?
JAKE: Do you know what?
I think you're right.
I think something
that would be really
nice here is an
IIFE syntax that was
clear from the first
few characters,
rather than be at the end.
SURMA: Yeah, you
see at the start,
oh, this function is going
to be invoked immediately.
Just execute that block of code.
It's allowed to return, though--
would be nice.
It's a problem worth looking at.
Not sure I like this solution.
JAKE: All right.
Well, that's Surma,
who's declared
that he hates that idea
and everyone involved.
SURMA: I'm not going
to send this video
to [INAUDIBLE] after.
JAKE: So this one.
You've seen this before, right?
We've done examples like this.
So we're saying, hello, world.
All default. Right.
SURMA: OK, it seems
like we get going
and it has a lot of synergy
with the question mark thing.
JAKE: Ah, it is.
It is.
So the problem here is if
hello, world is an empty string
and you actually want it--
you were wanting to
say, if world exists--
SURMA: Or undefined or 0.
JAKE: So this is the proposal.
So what this means
is use default
if world is null or undefined.
SURMA: But not an empty string.
JAKE: Not empty string.
Not 0.
SURMA: Oh, this is the thing
where you run into the trap
where you're doing the or
to have a default value,
but then you realize, oh,
wait, 0 and empty string
are actually considered false,
even though, in this case,
they are legit values for me.
JAKE: Yes, exactly.
SURMA: Interesting.
Interesting.
JAKE: Interesting.
That's a vote.
OK, let's keep going.
What does this do?
SURMA: It replaces
the first plus--
JAKE: Ah!
SURMA: With a space.
And I've run into
this so many times,
and if you don't-- if I
want to replace all of them,
you always have to go
with the right axis.
JAKE: Exactly like that,
and it's horrible, right?
SURMA: It's so horrible.
JAKE: Especially if you're doing
things with slashes in already,
you get all the
horrible escaping.
It's nasty.
The proposal is--
SURMA: Yes, replace all.
Yes, interesting.
Good.
Do it.
Ship it.
JAKE: All right.
Excellent.
Brilliant.
Right.
Moving on.
Ooh!
SURMA: Oh, this is so Ruby.
JAKE: It is so Ruby.
This is where this
has come from.
So what would you
assume this is?
SURMA: So this-- two
versions I could see.
Either some function
takes a parameter
and returns a
function, and that then
gets invoked with this thing,
or the block at the end
just turns into the second
parameter of some function.
JAKE: Second one-- correct.
Yes.
It is sugar for that.
SURMA: Ah, the reactive
field are going to love it.
JAKE: Right.
And there's some
interesting kind
of syntaxes you get with this.
It's a lot of--
SURMA: It's very
un-idiomatic right now.
If you put it into
the language, it's,
by definition, not really
un-idiomatic anymore.
But right now, it
feels very foreign.
JAKE: Yeah, it does.
It feels very foreign,
and it's a lot--
it's a new syntax for
something that-- all right.
How different, really, is that?
What are we really
gaining there?
SURMA: I think I would have
to see it with more chaining,
because for example, could
I make some function,
then, return a new function-- it
takes a function, and then just
chain these blocks together.
And is that something
that we want to allow?
JAKE: Oh, yeah.
I didn't even consider that.
I wonder if that
would be valid syntax?
Ooh.
Exciting.
SURMA: Worth looking into.
I mean, I'm a big fan of
functional programming,
in general.
Watch my Supercharged
series, coming up
on functional
JavaScript programming.
[DING SOUND]
JAKE: Right.
OK, next one.
It's the last one.
SURMA: OK.
JAKE: Familiar with this syntax?
SURMA: It's an array.
JAKE: It's an array.
Excellent.
SURMA: One point for Surma.
JAKE: Congratulations.
You keep your job.
Ooh.
SURMA: Oh, last item.
I remember being looped into a
Twitter flame war around this.
JAKE: Oh yeah, that was--
SURMA: Because last item, I'm
on board with because it's--
the only way to do it right
now is array, angle brackets,
and then in the
there-- array, length,
minus 1, which also,
I think, acts weird
if the array is empty.
Or does it just do undefined?
Because then it would
do array minus 1.
JAKE: You'd be on
the minus 1 thing.
It would still be empty.
SURMA: I don't even
know right now.
Then suddenly, you have to
think about these things.
JAKE: Holy arrays, maybe.
SURMA: So this would
be well-defined.
If it's empty,
it's probably going
to be undefined or something.
It's going to be well-defined,
and it's a nice and easy
to read way to
get the last item.
JAKE: And I agree.
I've wanted this all
the time, and it's nice
that it's also a
setter, which is great.
So this is me--
SURMA: Interesting.
JAKE: Making the array, 1, 2, 4.
SURMA: That is nice.
The thing that we had on
Twitter was, well, then we
should also have first item.
JAKE: Well actually,
the way I came
to it is I saw
someone going, I'm
really excited about first item,
and didn't mention last item.
And I was like, really?
We have--
SURMA: 0.
JAKE: 0.
SURMA: It's pretty concise.
It's actually shorter.
JAKE: OK.
I understand the
excitement for last item.
And it, in the proposal,
only mentions last item.
It doesn't mention first time.
So yeah.
OK.
So out of those,
what's your favorite?
SURMA: What do we have?
I think it's coalescing null.
I think that has the biggest
impact for me, probably
because I've been writing
a lot of user facing,
slash, library code recently.
So you always end up
handling options, objects,
and then this whole verification
stuff just gets annoying.
JAKE: Yeah, and you can always
pass something like this
off to a function that gets
the last item of an array.
It's not amazingly pretty,
but it does the job,
whereas the null thing
is really difficult
to sort of librar-ify, right?
SURMA: Yeah, and then
you have the functions,
and you have to chain them.
It gets weird.
JAKE: It gets weird.
OK.
Yeah.
So that's all I had.
SURMA: We should talk
about, after the next TT 39
meeting, an update on
did they move on or not.
JAKE: Did any of these move?
There's actually
loads more proposals,
so if I, once again, can't
think of a code episode to do,
we're going to go
through some more.
SURMA: I like it.
JAKE: And I'm sure there'll
be more proposals by then,
so we'll keep doing this
as a kind of regular thing.
SURMA: All right.
Until then
JAKE: Until then.
I treated myself to a massage.
SURMA: A massage?
JAKE: A massage.
SURMA: Is it massage or massage?
JAKE: I don't know.
I don't know.
SURMA: I'm still confused.
JAKE: Massage.
SURMA: A massage.
JAKE: A massage.
Yeah.
SURMA: A massage.